Initial documentation (#11)
plone/plone.distribution: docs/usage/package-structure.md

> # Important files / folders

Reviewer: Insert HTML meta stuff

> # Important files / folders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Important files and folders
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This chapter describes important files and folders generated from the cookiecutter template.

```

## `setup.py`

> The package will follow some conventions, to make it "discoverable" by others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The package will follow some conventions, to make it discoverable by others.
```

> In `setup.py`, always add the correct Trove Classifiers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `setup.py`, always add the correct [trove classifiers](https://pypi.org/classifiers/):
```

```python
        "Framework :: Plone",
        "Framework :: Plone :: 6.0",
        "Framework :: Plone :: Distribution",
```

> and also require `plone.distribution` to be available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Require that `plone.distribution` is available.
```

```python
    install_requires=[
        "Plone",
        "setuptools",
        "plone.distribution",
    ],
```

## `configure.zcml`

> In your main `configure.zcml`, make sure to have the `plone` xml namespace declared:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your main `configure.zcml`, make sure to have the `plone` XML namespace declared.
```

```xml
<configure
    xmlns="http://namespaces.zope.org/zope"
    xmlns:plone="http://namespaces.plone.org/plone"
    >
```

> And also include `plone.distribution`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Include `plone.distribution`.
```

```xml
  <include package="plone.distribution" />
```

Then declare the distributions included in your package:

```xml

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  <plone:distribution
      name="blog"
      title="Personal Blog"
      description="A Plone site already configured to host a personal Blog."
      directory="distributions/blog"
      />

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> The registered distribution will configure a Personal Blog, with some default content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The registered distribution will configure a personal blog with some default content.
```

## `distributions` folder

> A convention is to use the `distributions/<distribution_name>`folder in the root of your package to organize your distribution configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By convention use the `distributions/<distribution_name>` folder in the root of your package to organize your distribution configuration.
```

> In that folder, you will need to provide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that folder, you must provide the following.
```

### `image.png`

> A 1080x768 image of your distribution. It could be the default page of a new site, your logo, or any other way of representing this distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A 1080 pixels wide by 768 pixels tall image of your distribution.
It could be the default page of a new site, your logo, or any other way to represent this distribution.
```

### `profiles.json`

> A `JSON` file with the GenericSetup profiles that are used by your distribution during installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a `JSON` file with the GenericSetup profiles that are used by your distribution during installation.
```

This file needs to contain two keys:

> * **base**: List of profiles installed in every new site using this distribution.

Reviewer: Convert to a definition list for legibility.

```suggestion
`base`
:   A list of profiles installed in every new site using this distribution.
```

> * **content**: List of profiles installed when the user decides to create a site with example content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`content`
:   A list of profiles installed when the user decides to create a site with example content.
```

> The configuration for a new Volto site is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration for a new Volto site is the following.
```

```json
{
  "base": [
    "plone.app.contenttypes:default",
    "plone.app.caching:default",
    "plonetheme.barceloneta:default",
    "plone.volto:default"
  ],
  "content": [
    "plone.volto:default-homepage"
  ]
}
```

### `schema.json`

In case you require additional input from the user during site creation, you can customize the form using the `schema.json` file.

> The file should contain two keys:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file should contain two keys.
```

> * **schema**: A JSON Schema definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`schema`
:   A JSON schema definition.
```

> * **uischema**: A [react-jsonschema-form](https://rjsf-team.github.io/react-jsonschema-form/docs/) configuration to modify how the form is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`uischema`
:   A [`react-jsonschema-form`](https://rjsf-team.github.io/react-jsonschema-form/docs/) configuration to modify how the form is displayed.
```

> The **schema** should have at least the following keys:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The schema should have at least the following keys.
```

> * site_id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `site_id`
```

> * title

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `title`
```

> * description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `description`
```

> * default_language

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `default_language`
```

> * portal_timezone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `portal_timezone`
```

> * setup_content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `setup_content`
```

> The `schema.json` used for the default site creation is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `schema.json` used for the default site creation is the following.
```

Reviewer: To avoid changes in code not getting updated in docs, I wonder if there is a more elegant way of managing them, such as with [`literalinclude`](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/stable/syntax/code_and_apis.html#including-code-from-files)?

    "type": "object",
    "required": [
      "site_id",
      "title"
    ],
    "properties": {
      "site_id": {
        "type": "string",
        "title": "Path Identifier",
        "default": "Plone",
        "description": "The ID of the site. No special characters or spaces are allowed. This ends up as part of the URL unless hidden by an upstream web server."
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "string",
        "title": "Title",
        "default": "Site",
        "description": "A short title for the site. This will be shown as part of the title of the browser window on each page."
      },
      "description": {
        "type": "string",
        "title": "Site Description",
        "default": "A Plone Site"
      },
      "default_language": {"$ref": "#/definitions/languages"},
      "portal_timezone": {"$ref": "#/definitions/timezones"},
      "setup_content": {
        "type": "boolean",
        "title": "Create Content",
        "description": "Should example content be added during site creation?",
        "default": false
      }
    }
  },
  "uischema": {
  }
}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

**Important**

> You probably noticed the entries for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You probably noticed the entries for `default_language`.
```

> default_language:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
{"$ref": "#/definitions/languages"}
```

> and portal_timezone:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

and `portal_timezone`.
```

```
{"$ref": "#/definitions/timezones"}
```

> Both definitions are added in runtime by `plone.distribution` to provide a list of languages and timezones available on the installation.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Both definitions are added in runtime by `plone.distribution` to provide a list of languages and timezones available on the installation.
```
````

```

## `configure.zcml`

In your main `configure.zcml`, make sure to have the `plone` XML namespace declared.

```xml
<configure
    xmlns="http://namespaces.zope.org/zope"
    xmlns:plone="http://namespaces.plone.org/plone"
    >
```

Include `plone.distribution`.

```xml
  <include package="plone.distribution" />
```

Declare the distributions included in your package.

```xml
  <plone:distribution
      name="blog"
      title="Personal Blog"
      description="A Plone site already configured to host a personal Blog."
      directory="distributions/blog"
      />
```

The registered distribution will configure a personal blog with some default content.

## `distributions` folder

By convention use the `distributions/<distribution_name>` folder in the root of your package to organize your distribution configuration.

In that folder, you must provide the following.

### `image.png`

A 1080 pixels wide by 768 pixels tall image of your distribution.
It could be the default page of a new site, your logo, or any other way to represent this distribution.

### `profiles.json`

This is a `JSON` file with the GenericSetup profiles that are used by your distribution during installation.

> This file needs to contain two keys:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file needs to contain two keys.
```

`base`
:   A list of profiles installed in every new site using this distribution.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

      },
      "title": {
        "type": "string",
        "title": "Title",
        "default": "Site",
        "description": "A short title for the site. This will be shown as part of the title of the browser window on each page."
      },
      "description": {
        "type": "string",
        "title": "Site Description",
        "default": "A Plone Site"
      },
      "default_language": {"$ref": "#/definitions/languages"},
      "portal_timezone": {"$ref": "#/definitions/timezones"},
      "setup_content": {
        "type": "boolean",
        "title": "Create Content",
        "description": "Should example content be added during site creation?",
        "default": false
      }
    }
  },
  "uischema": {
  }
}
```

```{important}
You probably noticed the entries for `default_language`.

```
{"$ref": "#/definitions/languages"}
```

and `portal_timezone`.

```
{"$ref": "#/definitions/timezones"}
```

Both definitions are added in runtime by `plone.distribution` to provide a list of languages and timezones available on the installation.

> ```

Reviewer: `````suggestion
````
`````

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
